Dear colleagues,
As I am back in Stockholm this week after a couple of weeks of extensive travel, I am once again amazed to meet all our colleagues and to see your enthusiasm. This is even more apparent after a Q1 report that has further boosted our confidence. The comments from customers are also positive and encouraging!
We can now see that our focused strategy is gaining traction. This would not have been possible without your determination and ability to execute. Let’s keep the momentum up during Q2. 
One clear example is how the perception of Managed Services (MS) is changing. Traditionally the focus has been on cost reduction through offshoring. Today it is increasingly focused on leveraging automation and Artificial Intelligence to manage complex networks and to achieve efficiency gains. 
Our Managed Services business has two must win battles. The first is to lead operations and optimization for next generation networks such as 5G, IoT and Cloud. The second battle is to lead in automation, Artificial Intelligence & Advanced Analytics as these are key prerequisites for the model we are creating for the next generations’ networks. Actually, investments in automation etc. is really like R&D for our Managed Services  business, and we are increasing our commitments.
Just this week we secured a deal with Softbank, Japan, where we will use an innovative method for radio access network design based on machine learning  to reduce operational expenditure and improve network performance. 
Managed Services is an integral part of the overall Ericsson offering and delivers strategic benefits to the rest of the company by providing operational feedback for product improvements from our ~1 million network nodes, as well as giving a continuous dialogue with our customers.  
But we must also continue to turn around the business. In the past we focused on growth rather than profitability. 
The MS business has previously struggled with negative operating income. Q1 2018 marked a milestone as we showed that our managed services is a profitable business, and this was reached ahead of plan. This has been achieved on the back of the new strategic direction and sales directives, contract reviews and cost out actions.     
Well done, and let’s show we are on a new trajectory! 
Operating margins will structurally be low in MS. However, the capital intensity is very low, which means that the Economic Profit is positive for us. As we now are profitable in MS, we have earned the right to grow the business, so let’s increase focus on sales.  We have a more efficient operation and a strong offering leveraging technology, let’s build on that to start growing. I know we can do it without sacrificing margin requirements.
Economic Profit is the best way to see if a business creates value or not. Economic Profit is operating income less the cost of the capital tied up in the business. If Economic Profit is negative, it means that the business does not generate enough income to cover the cost for the capital tied up.
There are two ways to impact Economic Profit: improve operating income or reduce capital tied up. We know the efforts to improve operating income. But we are also working on reducing the capital base by focusing on overdue account receivables and reviewing end to end processes and ways of working from commercial offer to payment.
To summarize, Economic Profit measures our true profitability and how we truly create value as a company. This is of course the reason for linking our STV (Short Term Variable pay) plan to the Economic Profit indicator. 
Our Q1 result gives confidence that we are on track to achieve our Economic Profit target for 2018. By keeping up the current pace of execution, we are comfortably on the way to reaching and surpassing our targets. 
A long journey has many steps. Let’s keep focus on executing also in Q2!
Regards,
 
Börje
President & CEO
